README.md, before:

# Introduction to Java

## Topics (part 1)

The following topics explain basic principle of programming.

### What is programming:

- Introduction
- Why learn to program
- What does a developer do
- How to learn programming
- What is programming
- Real world program example

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1-w1Y9VTyl8SsIjDyaoh97XTpwgC6tZp0zJPoYgFwvwg)
- [Material for the real world program](https://drive.google.com/open?id=13yi2B3_SJOdTFeYymV9bIuyK09cTZMAxCSRRxwDxEDM)

### What Is Java?

- Introduction to Java
- Simple programs
- Compiling programs
- Our first program

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=16TPxzJAKEHSATpizypYe_S9P0aoCoZOxO4WixMNacaI)

### First Steps

- First steps
- Where to start
- Comments
- Printing text

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1AbdSwf4E3HizYdYBbXtVsVVsBt6WJI6hLr-3sZaGatg)

### Data Types

- Variables
- Variable names
- Data types
  - `String`
  - `int`
  - `boolean`
  - `float`
- Declaration and initialization
- Print with different data types
- Primitive types

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=113jN-mJ4Ev80sNsjk8NspoAvUegXHBH9EvHAaV8DwXY)

### Operators

- Operators
- Assignment
- Arithmetic
- Compound assignment
- Increment / Decrement
- Relational
- Logic

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1KCbPB5X8UH2ar7Sd-qez4SrfPUaPL-TBzco8-5rXsto)
- [Exercises](exercises/operators.md)
- [Solutions](exercises/operators_solution.md)

### Decision Statements

- Input
  - `Scanner`
- `if`
- Conditions
  - Chaining
- Boolean expressions
- Number comparison
- `else`
- `else if`
- `switch/case`
- `switch/case` vs `if`

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1lrUGGIwYULLqz-VFGDIhW06NajFyYJdFdp0_gfXCI64)
- [Exercises](exercises/math.md)
- [Solutions](exercises/math_solution.md)

### Loops

- `for`
- `while`
- `do/while`
- shortened `for` (foreach)

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1rXD7s4BHbhagSCYkUmzy8VBnzEBWFUSoOUEWA01ZLlU)
- [Exercises](exercises/if_loops.md)
- [Solutions](exercises/if_loops_solution.md)

### Methods / Scope

- Methods
  - Why do we need methods
  - Structure
  - Example
- Scope

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1Uhl80yqE57XGV-HlMUBvj_ti9O_c2_so7j7Fb70DVho)
- [Exercises on simple methods](exercises/simple_methods.md)
- [Solutions for simple methods](exercises/simple_methods_solution.md)
- [Exercises on reusing methods](exercises/reusing_methods.md)
- [Solutions for reusing methods](exercises/reusing_methods_solution.md)

### Strings

- Using `Scanner` to read strings
- Comparing `String`
- Operations on single characters

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1V9Sqz18Fgq7cxAGw18B6Q0dSzI06ClctXZQHC5kqDnw)
- [Exercises](exercises/strings.md)
- [Solutions](exercises/strings_solution.md)

### ArrayLists

- Why using `ArrayList`
- Accessing / Updating of `ArrayList`
- `ArrayList` and loops
- Exercises

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1gf6QiQvlA1pWD6MYK2de8SMxeQDVXxv72w51gUrUdTQ)
- [Exercises](exercises/arrays.md)
- [Solutions](exercises/arrays_solution.md)

## Middle-course review

This is a list of questions that covers the topics taught so far.

- [Questions](exercises/review.md)
- [Answers](exercises/review_answers.md)

## Topics (part 2)

The following topics explain the Object Oriented Programming model of Java.

### Using Classes

This lesson provides an overview of classes, objects and references.
The focus is on using existing classes.

- Classes and Objects
- Properties and Methods
- Using Classes and Objects
- References

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=10grg-OJhOq_yh1vmNeYtcibHmyh4m5B-x_4HwNiSMDA)
- [Exercises](exercises/using_java_stdlib.md) with the Java Standard library
- [Solutions](exercises/using_java_stdlib_solution.md) for the exercises with the Java Standard Library
- [The "School" library](libraries/school): teachers, students and homework
- [Exercises](exercises/using_school_library.md) with the "School" library
- [ ] Solutions for exercises with the "School" library

### Implementing Classes

This lesson provides basic information on how to write your own classes.

- How to write your own class
- Writing the constructor
- Writing properties
- Writing methods

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1JB_iSD1WZhGtIoaw6lvolvkFAGKGZM0xeUH4zRulSVs)

### Class Scope / this

- Repetition of scope
- Method scope / Parameters
- Class Scope
- `this` keyword

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1lhI3b7NsllHZxdo_jsa3D8SFG-M4GrIMqDabztrP3Zc)
- [Exercise](exercises/implementing_car.md)

### Inheritance and Interfaces

This lesson is a continuation of the previous, where
additional concepts are presented in more details
and guidelines and examples are provided on how to
write your own classes with inheritance and interfaces.

- Inheritance
- Subclasses
- Examples (bikes, motorbikes, mountain bikes)
- Overriding methods
- Interfaces
- Examples (animals, cats, dogs)

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1Y2DO-g82QsFyJBUNSebROA4aQvFErXHzlF-pq7Lhe_s)

## More

[Summary](https://drive.google.com/open?id=17INZXtXc8BCayMM6IADvNOSybVTwyVr97UDeMk7-YEw)
- [ ] Add further reading material

Commit message:

Projects listed on the main page

README.md, after:

# Introduction to Java

## Topics (part 1)

The following topics explain basic principle of programming.

### What is programming:

- Introduction
- Why learn to program
- What does a developer do
- How to learn programming
- What is programming
- Real world program example

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1-w1Y9VTyl8SsIjDyaoh97XTpwgC6tZp0zJPoYgFwvwg)
- [Material for the real world program](https://drive.google.com/open?id=13yi2B3_SJOdTFeYymV9bIuyK09cTZMAxCSRRxwDxEDM)

### What Is Java?

- Introduction to Java
- Simple programs
- Compiling programs
- Our first program

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=16TPxzJAKEHSATpizypYe_S9P0aoCoZOxO4WixMNacaI)

### First Steps

- First steps
- Where to start
- Comments
- Printing text

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1AbdSwf4E3HizYdYBbXtVsVVsBt6WJI6hLr-3sZaGatg)

### Data Types

- Variables
- Variable names
- Data types
  - `String`
  - `int`
  - `boolean`
  - `float`
- Declaration and initialization
- Print with different data types
- Primitive types

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=113jN-mJ4Ev80sNsjk8NspoAvUegXHBH9EvHAaV8DwXY)

### Operators

- Operators
- Assignment
- Arithmetic
- Compound assignment
- Increment / Decrement
- Relational
- Logic

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1KCbPB5X8UH2ar7Sd-qez4SrfPUaPL-TBzco8-5rXsto)
- [Exercises](exercises/operators.md)
- [Solutions](exercises/operators_solution.md)

### Decision Statements

- Input
  - `Scanner`
- `if`
- Conditions
  - Chaining
- Boolean expressions
- Number comparison
- `else`
- `else if`
- `switch/case`
- `switch/case` vs `if`

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1lrUGGIwYULLqz-VFGDIhW06NajFyYJdFdp0_gfXCI64)
- [Exercises](exercises/math.md)
- [Solutions](exercises/math_solution.md)

### Loops

- `for`
- `while`
- `do/while`
- shortened `for` (foreach)

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1rXD7s4BHbhagSCYkUmzy8VBnzEBWFUSoOUEWA01ZLlU)
- [Exercises](exercises/if_loops.md)
- [Solutions](exercises/if_loops_solution.md)

### Methods / Scope

- Methods
  - Why do we need methods
  - Structure
  - Example
- Scope

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1Uhl80yqE57XGV-HlMUBvj_ti9O_c2_so7j7Fb70DVho)
- [Exercises on simple methods](exercises/simple_methods.md)
- [Solutions for simple methods](exercises/simple_methods_solution.md)
- [Exercises on reusing methods](exercises/reusing_methods.md)
- [Solutions for reusing methods](exercises/reusing_methods_solution.md)

### Strings

- Using `Scanner` to read strings
- Comparing `String`
- Operations on single characters

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1V9Sqz18Fgq7cxAGw18B6Q0dSzI06ClctXZQHC5kqDnw)
- [Exercises](exercises/strings.md)
- [Solutions](exercises/strings_solution.md)

### ArrayLists

- Why using `ArrayList`
- Accessing / Updating of `ArrayList`
- `ArrayList` and loops
- Exercises

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1gf6QiQvlA1pWD6MYK2de8SMxeQDVXxv72w51gUrUdTQ)
- [Exercises](exercises/arrays.md)
- [Solutions](exercises/arrays_solution.md)

## Middle-course review

This is a list of questions that covers the topics taught so far.

- [Questions](exercises/review.md)
- [Answers](exercises/review_answers.md)

## Topics (part 2)

The following topics explain the Object Oriented Programming model of Java.

### Using Classes

This lesson provides an overview of classes, objects and references.
The focus is on using existing classes.

- Classes and Objects
- Properties and Methods
- Using Classes and Objects
- References

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=10grg-OJhOq_yh1vmNeYtcibHmyh4m5B-x_4HwNiSMDA)
- [Exercises](exercises/using_java_stdlib.md) with the Java Standard library
- [Solutions](exercises/using_java_stdlib_solution.md) for the exercises with the Java Standard Library
- [The "School" library](libraries/school): teachers, students and homework
- [Exercises](exercises/using_school_library.md) with the "School" library
- [ ] Solutions for exercises with the "School" library

### Implementing Classes

This lesson provides basic information on how to write your own classes.

- How to write your own class
- Writing the constructor
- Writing properties
- Writing methods

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1JB_iSD1WZhGtIoaw6lvolvkFAGKGZM0xeUH4zRulSVs)

### Class Scope / this

- Repetition of scope
- Method scope / Parameters
- Class Scope
- `this` keyword

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1lhI3b7NsllHZxdo_jsa3D8SFG-M4GrIMqDabztrP3Zc)
- [Exercise](exercises/implementing_car.md)

### Inheritance and Interfaces

This lesson is a continuation of the previous, where
additional concepts are presented in more details
and guidelines and examples are provided on how to
write your own classes with inheritance and interfaces.

- Inheritance
- Subclasses
- Examples (bikes, motorbikes, mountain bikes)
- Overriding methods
- Interfaces
- Examples (animals, cats, dogs)

Material:
- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1Y2DO-g82QsFyJBUNSebROA4aQvFErXHzlF-pq7Lhe_s)


## Project proposals

These are some projects that were implemented in previous semesters.
You can implement one of them at the end of the semester if you have no ideas,
but you can also take inspiration from them and do something different and new.

- [Blackjack](projects/blackjack/README.md)
- [Mastermind](projects/mastermind/README.md)
- [Quiz](projects/quiz/README.md)
- [Tic-Tac-Toe](projects/tic-tac-toe/00.md)

## More

[Summary](https://drive.google.com/open?id=17INZXtXc8BCayMM6IADvNOSybVTwyVr97UDeMk7-YEw)
- [ ] Add further reading material
